
Keep In Mind...
Most of the behavioral questions should be answered in the CAR format. At least three sentences for each question (one for cause, one for action and one for result). When answering begin with "At my last opportunity..." or "At my last company". Don't sell yourself out and say "bootcamp" or "school".
CAR Formula
    Cause
        Why did you need to take action?
    Action
        Steps you took to solve problem.
        Be positive!
        Don't be humble!
    Result
        How are you better?
Behavioral Questions
    1) Give me an example of a project or initiative that you started on your own. What prompted you to get started?
        Cause: At a previous company we had project managers assigned to several different teams where workload would fluctuate quite a bit.
        Action: I noticed an opportunity to flatten the workload of the PM's, by creating a shared PM pool.
        Result: This was possible by running a high level kanban of all projects assigned by PM to get visibility to workload. It also allowed knowledge sharing such that it was much easier for a PM to step in on any given team.
    2) Tell me about a time you had to work on several projects at once. How did you handle this?
        Cause: I was working on two large projects for two separate clients that were at different stages of their lifecycle. One project was in production and the other project was in the implementation phase.
        Action: I decided to send a less experienced colleague to the installation site while I went to do a production check-in on the other project in China. Prior to leaving I briefed my colleague in on the project and told them what to look out for.
        Result: While in China I had daily calls with my colleague as well as received daily photo reports to review the installation. Both projects end up being financially successful. The tight communication and teamwork is ultimately what allowed it to be so.
    3) Describe a situation in which you felt you had not communicated well enough. What did you do? How did you handle it?
        Cause: I had a direct report working on building a client quote within a spreadsheet template.
        Action: I explained to them how to use and fill out the template and then left them to finish it.
        Result: After a few hours I came to see what the final result was and found that they only partially completed it and had many mistakes. What I did then and with subsequent reports was to have them work on the quote in front of me for 30 minutes so that I could guide them and allow them to ask question. I found that technique brought people up to speed more quickly.
    4) Tell me about when you had to deal with conflict within your team. How was the conflict solved? How did you handle that? How would you deal with it now?
        Cause: We had a rollout of shipments going on in which the schedule was tight. For the goods to come in, get assembled and leave the warehouse "orders" needed to be created in our ERP system which was a particular team members responsibility. I requested several times that they be created, but by the day in which they had to be created to not affect timing they were still not done.
        Action: I gathered the team member along with two others on our team to discuss the issue. I explained the urgency of the matter along with the tasks that needed to be completed and when. I have to admit I had a rather frustrated demeanor. The responsible team member said they couldn't do it. I suggested that they build one order with all of us there and perhaps we could split the work.
        Result: The orders ended up mostly being done by the responsible team member once they realized I'd provided the information in a clear to follow format. I apologized for for my foul attitude. I learned that I should've had more present and active communication with a team member that is responsible for the next task in the workflow rather than "throwing" the task over the fence per se.
    5) Give me an example of a time you had to take a creative and unusual approach to solve coding problem. How did this idea come to your mind? Why do you think it was unusual?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    6) Describe a situation in which you worked diligently on a project and it did not produce the desired results. Why didn't you get the desired results? What did you learn from the experience?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    7) Give an example of an important project goal you reached and how you achieved it.
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    8) Describe a situation in which you experienced difficulty in getting others to accept your ideas? What was your approach? How did this work? Were you able to successfully persuade someone to see things your way?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    9) Tell me about a situation when you were responsible for project planning. Did everything go according to your plan? If not, then why and what kind of counteractions did you have to take?
        Cause: Projects never go exactly to plan! I think one of the worst experiences I had was working on a set of brand new prototypes got a client that had a clear powder coat over steel, which is notoriously hard to produce. I was using a newer supplier to see if they could nail it, but after three tries they could not.
        Action: I made the call to split some of the more important pieces out to a different supplier which had been successful in the past, but cost significantly more. I then worked with the newer supplier to look at their powder coating process and identify area's that were causing issues (pre-powder cleaning was the main culprit).
        Result: I was able to deliver 95% of the parts to the client for review and was able to convince them that we were resolving some issues with other pieces and all would be fine. I was able to help the supplier adjust their cleaning process so that when final production started the QC rejection rate went from 75% on the prototypes to less than 5% on production. It sounds like a lot, but for the industry and process it was rather good.
    10) Tell me about a situation when you made a mistake at work. What happened exactly and how did you deal with it? What steps did you take to improve the situation?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    11) Tell me about a time when you worked with someone who was not completing his or her share of the work. How did you handle the situation? Did you discuss your concern with your coworker? With your manager? If yes, how did your coworker respond to your concern? What was your manager's response?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    12) Describe a situation when you worked effectively under pressure. How did you feel when working under pressure? What was going on, and how did you get through it?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    13) Tell me about yourself.
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    14) Tell me about your experience at 100Devs.
        100Devs is an agency with a training program. I worked on several projects both alone and with colleagues to better flesh out my skills. The main tech stack we used with React, Node, Express and MongoDB.
    15) What do you know about our company?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    16) Why do you want to work for us?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    17) Why are you interested in this opportunity?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    18) Tell me about your dream job?  What do you really want to do with your career?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    19) Tell me a time when you failed.
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    20) What do you read on a regular basis?
        I tend to go through phases of topics. Recently I've been reading various books on Data Structures & Algorithms along with books about Design/Graphic Design. I'll also typically read about the natural world (plant/animal species identification, geology, environmental issues), history (particularly Pacific Northwest and Japan), architecture and travel writing. I'm a huge fan of our public library system and I regularly use it.
    21) What's some critical feedback you've gotten recently?
        Cause:
        Action:
        Result:
    22) Do you have any questions?
        ...
Questions to Ask Interviewer Back
What is the interview process like? What is the timeline for the rest of this process?
What are some of the challenges for the person in this position?
What is a typical day in this position?
What is the onboarding process after the offer?
Are there training programs available?
How does Bob’s Burgers measure the success of their engineers?
What challenges can an engineer come across working at Bob’s Burgers?
Can you explain "thing you read on their engineering blog" and how it affects Bob’s Burgers Engineers?
What traits in an engineer are hard to find in an engineer that Bob’s Burgers would like to have?
How is critique given to engineers at Bob’s Burgers?
Do you have any questions or concerns about my qualifications?
Reverse Interviewing In-Depth
    Role
        What's the on-call plan/schedule? (what's the pay for standby and call-out)
        What are the tasks I would do on a usual day?
        Are there any specific goals for me?
        What's the junior/senior balance of the team? (and are there plans to change it)
        What does the onboarding look like?
        How much freedom for decision making do individual developers have?
        What are the expected/core work hours?
        What is your definition of success for this role?
        What do you expect me to accomplish in the first 1 month/3 months?
        How will you evaluate my performance at the end of the trial period?
        What does a typical day/week look like in this role?
        Do you have any concerns about my application?
        Tell me about who I would be working most closely with.
        What management style does my immediate manager and their manager have? (from micro- to macro-)
        How can I develop in my new role / what opportunities are offered?
    Tech
        What are the usual stacks used at the company?
        How do you use source control?
        How do you test code?
        How do you track bugs?
        How do you monitor projects?
        How do you integrate and deploy changes? Is it CI/CD?
        Is your infrastructure setup under version control / available as code?
        What's the workflow from the planning to the finished task?
        How do you prepare for disaster recovery?
        Is there a standardised development environment? Is it enforced?
        How quickly can you setup a new local test environment for the product? (minutes / hours / days)
        How quickly can you respond to security issues in the code or dependencies?
        Are all developers allowed to have local admin access of their computers?
        Tell me about your technical principles or vision.
        Do you have a developer documentation for your code? Do you have a separate documentation for customers?
        Do you have some higher level documentation? (ER diagrams, database schema)
        Do you employ static code analysis?
        How do you manage internal / external artifacts?
        How do you manage dependencies?
    The Team
        How is the work organised?
        How does the intra/inter-team communication typically work?
        Do you use any tools for project organization? What is your experience with them?
        How are differences of opinions resolved?
        Who sets the priorities / schedule?
        What happens after pushback? ("this can't be done in the projected time")
        What happens when the team misses a release target?
        What kind of meetings happen every week?
        Would there be a regular 1-on-1 with my manager?
        What's the product/service schedule? (n-weekly releases / continuous deployment / multiple release streams / ...)
        What happens after production incidents? Is there a culture of blameless analysis?
        What are some ongoing challenges the team is experiencing that you are yet to resolve?
        How do you track progress?
        How are expectations and goals set, and who does the setting?
        What does a code review look like here?
        Walk me through a typical sprint on this team
        How do you balance technical vs business goals?
        How do you share knowledge?
        How big is each team?
        How are services and projects delegated to each team?
    Your Potential Coworkers
        Who do developers tend to learn from?
        What do you like best about working there?
        What do you like least?
        What would you change if you could?
        How long has the longest team member been there?
        If it's a small team, has there been experiences of conflicting personalities and how was this dealt with?
    The Company
        Why is the company hiring? (product growth / new product / fluctuation / ...)
        Is there a conference/travel budget and what are the rules to use it?
        What's the promotion process? How are requirements / expectations communicated?
        What is the performance review process like?
        Is there a separate tech and management career path?
        Are there any company-wide resources for learning available, like ebooks subscriptions or online courses?
        Is there a budget for getting certifications?
        What's the maturity stage? (early finding direction / feature work / maintenance / ...)
        Can I contribute to FOSS projects? Are there any approvals needed?
        Are there any non-compete or non-disclosure agreements I'll be asked to sign?
        Where do you see the company in the next 5/10 years?
        What does clean code mean to the majority of developers here?
        When is the last time you noticed someone growing here, and in what way were they growing?
        What does it mean to be successful here, and how do you measure success?
        Is there a Sports / Team building Activity?
        Are there any Hackathons conducted internally?
        Does the company support open-source projects?
        What kind of social events does the team/company host and are these attended by everyone?
        Why did the company decide to hire an outsider over promoting an internal employee?
        Is the company willing to assist overseas job applicants in applying for work visas?
    Social issues
        What's the status of / view on diverse hiring?
        What do you think are the gaps in the company culture? (and what is the company culture?)
        What does work-life balance mean here?
        Does the company have a stance regarding climate change?
    Conflict
        How are differences of opinions resolved?
        What happens after pushback? ("this can't be done in the projected time")
        What happens when the team is under pressure and commits to work over their capacity / velocity?
        If someone identifies areas of improvement in process / technology / etc, what happens?
        When there is a gap between expectations from management and performance of an engineer or team, what happens?
        Could you tell me a story about a toxic situation and how the company dealt with it?
    The Business
        Are you profitable?
        If not, how long is your runway?
        Where does the funding come from and who influences the high level plan/direction?
        How do you make money?
        What's preventing you from making more money?
        What is the company's growth plan for the next 1 year? 5 years?
        What are the big challenges you see coming up?
        What have you identified as your competitive advantage?
    Remote Work
        What's the ratio of remote to office workers?
        Does the company provide hardware and what's the refresh schedule?
        How do you feel about BYOD? Are there any policies around it already?
        Are extra accessories/furniture possible to buy through the company? Is there a budget for them?
        Is there a budget for co-working space or internet access?
        How often are office visits expected?
        Are the office meeting rooms always prepared for video conferences?
    Building Layout
        What's the office layout? (open plan / cubicles / offices)
        Is there a support / marketing / other call-heavy team close to my new team?
    Catch all
        What's the best and what's the worst aspect of working in this role / team / company?
        What got you to choose to work for the company initially?
        What keeps you at the company?
    Compensation
        If you have a bonus scheme, then how are bonuses determined?
        If you have a bonus scheme, then what have been the typical bonus percentages over the past few years?
        Do you have a 401k or other retirement plan? If so, does the company match additional plan contributions?
        Are there medical benefits and if so, when do they start?
        Do you pay for relocation?
    Time Off
        How much Paid Time Off (PTO) is offered?
        Are sick time and vacation time separate or do they come from the same pool?
        Can I use vacation time before it's accrued, effectively going into a negative PTO balance?
        What is the roll over policy is there for PTO?
        What is the parental leave policy?
        What is the policy on unpaid leave?
        What is the policy for sabbatical leave?
